our correspondent hany Mahmud joins us
now on the phone from Rafa hany first of
all tell us what you know or what you're
hearing about yet more people who are
trying to get Aid being shot at by
Israeli
[Music]
forces yes well desperate living
conditions and situations across the
distri are forcing Palestinians across
thep to get to go anywhere and reach to
anywhere they are possible to to get to
in order to to find some of the basic
necessities and Food Supplies and
provide for their families and to to
keep them alive in the face of this
famina spreading everywhere the reports
we're getting right now fromaz that's an
area between Gaza and the central uh
area of the Gaza Strip where uh these
Aid or the food Aid that is available at
that area was from what was dropped it
from there within the past it's 48 hours
by the Jordanian the amadis and then the
uh the the us as well so that that food
Aid was in that area that has been
designated by the Israeli military as a
combat zone and nobody was able to reach
to uh the uh the food Parcels that were
dropped as of today and given the famine
the acute famine right now where people
are dying of dehydration and starvation
to try to reach to where the area to get
to the food that is on the ground and
that's where they were shot at by heavy
machine guns and by tank shells there
seven people reported killed right at
the spot with several other injuries and
the fact that those injuries we know
from past experiences that because of
non-operational Health Facilities the
people who are injured are at risk of
losing their lives as there is no way to
get any proper medical uh intervention
uh what so ever this is not the first
incident happening within the past four
days in a row every Aid boy and every a
truck tried to make its way to Gaza and
the northern part obstructed by the isra
military and by the conditions created
on the ground very difficult condition
that keeps barring those uh trucks from
entering and reaching to people who are
really desperate right now either on
where they were shot at or na around
intersection roundabout where they were
there was an atrocity better known among
palestin now as the FL atrocity it keeps
going on by these restrictions that make
make it very difficult to get eight hany
Mahmud bringings the latest situation
there in Gaza thanks very much hany well
let's speak now to Tamara Al Rafi she's
anra spokeswoman and joins us from Cairo
Tamar as we just heard from hany yet
another incident where Palestinians who
were desperately trying to get hold of
Aid being shot at by Israeli forces why
do we keep seeing this
happen because 90% of the population
today in Gaza is facing high level of
acute food insecurity and therefore
anyone seeing a convoy of trucks of Aid
trucks going through their part of Gaza
will jump on these trucks out of hunger
and despair and fear and will try to
help themselves onto these convoys
especially as we're hearing more and
more about children under the age of two
now dying of hunger related diseases and
dehydration the situation is so dire the
despair is so high that any passage of
trucks becomes an attraction to people
who are hungry and very few trucks are
actually getting through we're hearing
of the world food program having its
first Convoy being turned away at
Northern Gaza in Northern Gaza the edge
of Northern Gaza one wonders why the
Israelis are stopping any Aid reaching
those people in the north when they so
desperately need
it obstructions to the north have
reached very very high levels accessing
the isolated population north of w Gaza
is a real challenge more than half PA
the requests by the UN altogether to
bring much needed food medical supplies
clean water to the north have been
rejected by the Israeli authorities we
keep pushing but it's worth remembering
that today's Convoy by the world food
program is the first attempt in two
weeks to go to the north un the agency I
represent which is the largest
humanitarian agency in Gaza today has
not been able has not been permitted to
to go to the north of Gaza since the
23rd of January that's almost 6 weeks of
us not being able to bring food and
medical supplies to people who are
desperate and isolated in the north of
Gaza we're hearing um from the EU that
there are plans a foot for a human a
maritime humanitarian Corridor via
Cyprus what do you make of
that the most straightforward way of
getting Aid into the Gaza Strip is to
use the existing Crossings namely kamam
abam kamam Shalom and RAF from Egypt so
there are many conversations about the
maritime route there have been attempts
to airdropping
um of of Aid onto the strip but really
the most straight straightforward way
and this is what we at onra the largest
UN agency have been calling for is there
are
existing uh land crossings that are much
more straightforward faster more
economical and safer and there are
constant requests for a ceasefire that
would allow an influx of humanitarian
assistance why should we reinvent the
wheel let us use what exists and what
has worked before much of H's funding
has been cut off for for some weeks now
by a number of countries around the
world how is the organization coping
what operations are is it able to still
do with in
Gaza maintained all our much needed
humanitarian response in Gaza let's
remember we are responsible for people
who are in our shelters it is unra that
runs the shelters that distributes foods
that sends Medical Teams into the
shelters and we've maintained all that
we've also maintained our 700 schools
across the entire region and 140 Health
Centers and that is thanks to donors who
have not suspended their funding based
on allegations so we we still have many
close supporters and we're working on
providing a lot of cooperation to the
reviews of our own systems that will
enable us to prove once again that we
are a principled UN agency and we are
indispensable in the response in Gaza
but also in the region so we're working
month by month we're maintaining our
operations in March and in April and
we're truly hoping to reverse the
decision by some of our donors by
proving how transparent and principled
we are tomara alifi many thanks for
taking the time to join us here on
aljazera